# Possible Design, Features and Front-end Framework for MacWater Website -  Ricardo Tan
## General Design and Features 
The main goal of this website is to highlight the work that is being done by the MacWater Team. This should include information such as the general goal of the project, people involved and current work being done. The website should be able to graph the real-time data obtained from the different sensors located throughout the city.Furthermore, this website is planned to be accessible on both desktop and mobile browsers, therefore the website must be scalable for different screensizes. To ensure that our website modern, it is important to browse other websites and think about what kind of features and tools they have that could also be implemented into the MacWater webpage.

### Interactive Map 
[This interactive map] (https://cvc.ca/watershed-science/watershed-monitoring/real-time-monitoring/) by Credit Valley Conservation shows the various locations of the sensors that they have set up. When one of the locations is selected, a tag appears on top of it showing information regarding owner and type of station it is and a link to learn more about the current weather condition. The way that this can be adapted to our webpage is to have the tag showing the weather condition at the sensor location such as wind speed and ground level air temperature, then the user can click on the tag itself to be brought to a page that shows further information regarding that sensor which should include a description of the sensor and a interactive plot of the sensor's data. In the Credit Valley Conservation's map, it seems that they are using the Google Maps API, however, in our case this is not a good option. This is because Google's API has a limit on the number of times it can be accessed per day before incurring charges. Not to mention that one must sign up as a developer to get a specific API key to use, this will make a maintaining the website difficult since there are going to be different students maintaining it in the future. Currently another possible option to use is [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/), it is open-source and does not limit the number of API request in a day. However, it might not have all the functionalities that Google Maps offers.


### Interactive Plot
Credit Valley Conservation has a beautiful [plot](https://cvc.ca/watershed-science/watershed-monitoring/real-time-monitoring/west-credit-river-belfountain-conservation-area/) of their real-time data from one of their water quality station. Users can hover over data point and it will show the data's numerical value and timestamp. Another great feature of the plot is being able to adjust the time span of the data allowing more flexibility on how the user can observe the data presented. Also, users can quickly toggle between the different sensor data without having to refresh the page everytime. One interesting feature that they have is being able to have a background behind the plot, in their plots they have placed different threshold levels for the health of the aquatic life. Considering that this plot is for water monitoring level as well, all the features mentioned earlier should be included in our implementation. One minor change that could be made would be what background should be behind the plot presented. The plots that they have seems to have been licensed from [highcharts.com](https://www.highcharts.com/). While the chart looks aestically pleasing and has a lot of great functionalities, it is not open-source and has a very high cost for the licensing. One possible alternative that is open-sourced is [chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/). Nonetheless, it is not clear whether or not it can provide all the functionalities needed.


### Export Data
This [webpage](https://ourworldindata.org/world-population-growth) is working with time-series data on world population growth provides a graph in which a csv file of the data can be downloaded by the user. This feature can be very useful because it allows the user to analyze the data further using other software of their choosing. In the webpage mentioned, the data used in the plot is static, therefore the csv file can be preassembled beforehand for the user to download. In our case, the data used for the plot is real-time, therefore user must specify the timespan of the data to be fetched from the database, then it must be converted into a csv file.

### Quick Information About Data
This [webpage](https://www.ined.fr/en/everything_about_population/graphs-maps/population_graphs/) about world population has different tools that provides general information regarding the data such as growth rate, death rate and infant mortality. A nice feature present is an interactive slider to which users can change the year of the information presented. For our uses, this can be adapted to showing information such as the minimum and maximum point of a certain sensor reading. It is not clear how they have implemented this feature specifically, but a similar function can be achieved by animating progress bars using Javascript.

### Live Newsfeed
[Toronto and Region Conservation's webpage](https://trca.ca/conservation/environmental-monitoring/surface-water-quality/) regarding surface water quality has a live twitter feed for their tweets made by them. For our uses, this can be changed to showing tweets using certain keywords. Similar feature to include would be a news feed that presents local water quality taken from a local news station website. Including a twitter feed on the webpage is simply done through their API and as for the news feed, a webscraper script is needed. 

### Scalable Top Navigation Bar (Hamburger Menu)
As mentioned before our website is planned to be used on both deskptop and mobile browser,therefore scaling of the webpage is very important. Everything on the webpage should be scalable based on the screen size, this includes text and images, and everything in between. On our website, there will most likely be a top navigation bar for users to go to different webpages. This navigation bar is usually a horizontal bar on desktop, however, on mobile it must be implemented with a "Hamburger Menu" which hides the navigation bar into one element which acts similar to a dropdown menu. An example of this can be seen on the [Government of Canada website](https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/freshwater-quality-monitoring.html). Implementation of this can be done using Javascript as shown in a [tutorial by w3schools.com] (https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_topnav_responsive.asp).

## Web Design Framework
In terms of software development, a framework is a set of tools that can be used to solve a problem. In the context of web design this can be defined as a package containing standardized code to help aid the development of websites. Frameworks can be classified into one of two categories, front-end or back-end. Front-end focuses more on the aesthetics of the webpage, while back-end focuses on the logic. Front-end frameworks can be further divided into two parts which are simple and complete frameworks. Simple frameworks, divides the webpage into grids which then provides a basic layout of the possible placements of webpage elements, this framework is often simply referred to as a grid system. On the other hand, complete frameworks offer a grid system along with libraries that implement various elements such as buttons, tooltips and typography. 

### Comparison of Various Web Design Complete Frameworks

#### [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) 
Currently the most popular framework that is used, which means that there is a lot of active communities that can act as a resource. Also, opinions of people that use Bootstrap think that it is very well documented. Bootstrap provides strong mobile support, which allows webpage to be compatible on different browsers and screen sizes. It is important to note that Bootstrap is open-source.

#### [Foundation](https://foundation.zurb.com/)
Foundation is open-source and has a mobile-first philosophy which means that developers should design how the webpage is going to look like on mobile first, then scale it up to be able to work on desktop. Furthermore, Foundation has a lot of plugins available for a more customizable development environment.

#### [Skeleton] (http://getskeleton.com/)
It is an open-source and mobile-friendly web design framework that does not have a lot of feature since the main focus is to be lightweight and responsive. What is great about Skeleton is that no compilation or installation needed.